scrapers/src/unrate/README.md, before:

# usa-dashboard/urate

This project is for developing a calibrated time series "nowcast" for the
national unemployment rate.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) releases a monthly estimate of the national
unemployment rate. We would like to be able to "interpolate" higher-frequency
weekly figures, but this requires additional data.  Pavlicek and Kristoufek
([pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1408.6639.pdf)) show that Google Trends can
substantially improve the nowcast of the unemployment rate.

This project [`data`](./data/) directory currently has two unemployment series,
[`LNS14000000.csv`](./data/LNS14000000.csv') and
[`UNRATE.csv`](./data/UNRATE.csv'), which come from the BLS and Federal Reserve.
The Fed is a bit easier to get started with, but ultimately we want the data to
be coming from the BLS. The [`simple_model.py`](./scripts/simple_model.py)
program in the [`scripts`](./scripts/) directory takes the BLS series and
estimates an ARIMA model. Currently, it saves the results in a plot in
[`figures`](./figures/), depending on how the model is calibrated.

[Here's an example plot.](./figures/ur-arima\(4,1,0\).svg)

# TODOs

## Pressing 

* Google search trends
    * Come up with a way to reliably pull data from Google search trends to be
      included with the model.
    * Decide which search terms the model should include (e.g. 'jobs', 'job
      listings', etc.).
    * Since we could potentially update the forecast every week, we need to
      decide how to interpolate the monthly BLS data with the new information
being generated by searches each week.
* Model verification and analysis
    * We should set up some diagnostics that our model can run through to check
      for various fitting problems.
    * This information should get logged somewhere so we can evaluate model
      performance going forward.
* Data storage
    * The CSV system is fine right now but eventually we will want to connect to
      the dashboard's database for storage.
    * Agreeing on data formatting and such will need to happen eventually.

## Less pressing

* State and city-level forecasting
    * In principle we could build identical models for individual states and
      possibly cities, although I'm not positive that the BLS has city
information.
    * We could be more specific in the search terms, e.g. 'Illinois jobs', that
      we calibrate on.
* BLS API wrapper
    * [`scripts/bls_query_to_csv.py`](./scripts/bls_query_to_csv.py) is a handy
      script that fetches time series data from the BLS and writes to a CSV file. 
    * This tool might be useful for other folks in D4D, so it would be cool to
      formalize this script as a fully-functional API wrapper. I don't think it
would be too difficult.

Commit message:

Incorporated the bls library into the project
The repository https://github.com/OliverSherouse/bls is on the PyPI, and it does essentially all that I need at the moment (I've submitted a pull request to the repository that extends its functionality, but it isn't critical). This update uses the bls package to acquire and store the BLS data, and updates the bls query script correspondingly.

scrapers/src/unrate/README.md, after:

# usa-dashboard/urate

This project is for developing a calibrated time series "nowcast" for the
national unemployment rate.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) releases a monthly estimate of the national
unemployment rate. We would like to be able to "interpolate" higher-frequency
weekly figures, but this requires additional data.  Pavlicek and Kristoufek
([pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1408.6639.pdf)) show that Google Trends can
substantially improve the nowcast of the unemployment rate.

This project [`data`](./data/) directory houses BLS data in the [`national`](
./data/national) subdirectory, as well as Google search trends data in the 
[`google`](./data/google) directory.  The [`simple_model.py`](
./scripts/simple_model.py) program in the [`scripts`](./scripts/) directory 
takes the BLS series andestimates an ARIMA model. Currently, it saves the 
results in a plot in [`figures`](./figures/), depending on how the model is 
calibrated

[Here's an example plot.](./figures/ur-arima\(4,1,0\).svg)

# TODOs

## Pressing 

* Google search trends
    * ~~Come up with a way to reliably pull data from Google search trends 
    to be included with the model.~~ The `pytrends` library is really 
    useful, and we're using it to pull data from Google.
    * ~~Decide which search terms the model should include (e.g. 'jobs', 'job
      listings', etc.).~~ We're going to use 'jobs' as the first iteration.
    * Since we could potentially update the forecast every week, we need to
      decide how to interpolate the monthly BLS data with the new information
being generated by searches each week.
* Model verification and analysis
    * We should set up some diagnostics that our model can run through to check
      for various fitting problems.
    * This information should get logged somewhere so we can evaluate model
      performance going forward.
* Data storage
    * The CSV system is fine right now but eventually we will want to connect to
      the dashboard's database for storage.
    * Agreeing on data formatting and such will need to happen eventually.

## Less pressing

* State and city-level forecasting
    * In principle we could build identical models for individual states and
      possibly cities, although I'm not positive that the BLS has city
information.
    * We could be more specific in the search terms, e.g. 'Illinois jobs', that
      we calibrate on.
<s>
* BLS API wrapper
    * [`scripts/bls_query_to_csv.py`](./scripts/bls_query_to_csv.py) is a handy
      script that fetches time series data from the BLS and writes to a CSV file. 
    * This tool might be useful for other folks in D4D, so it would be cool to
      formalize this script as a fully-functional API wrapper. I don't think it
would be too difficult.
</s>
* We're using the [`bls`](https://github.com/OliverSherouse/bls) package to 
make requests from the BLS API.
